# Project-1

## Home Forecast Values

## New Construction Sales

## Overview New Construction Sales
* For this section, I picked apart the “new construction” sales csv file in pandas. First, I originally wanted to compare the “Metro Sales” and the “New Construction” sales csv with each other so I made a merged dataset. However, when I made my graphs I was only pulling from the “new construction” dataset. So being the efficient human I am, I just went with it and analyzed the new construction sales data. First, I made a bar plot to show the different new construction sales in January, April, August, and November in 2023. It was interesting to see how Columbus, OH had more sales than Cincinnati, OH. Also, I noticed that April is the best time to buy a house because no matter the city the “Spring” purple line in the bar graph surpassed every other season. Then, I looked at the historical data from 2018, all the way to 2023 in the month of January. It was interesting to see how drastic the drop off point was once 2019 hit, most likely due to covid. Then you start to see it pick back up in 2022. For the “Spring” graph you can clearly see the drop off point in 2020 for all the cities. There is a huge spike in 2022 where the new construction housing sales picked back up. The “Summer” sales graph was interesting because there was a spike in 2021, then a slight decline for following years except in 2022 there was another peak for the cities of Cleveland, OH and Akron, OH. The last graph I did was for the historical prices in the month of November. House sales are historically a little lower than usual for this time of year compared to others. In 2021, there was a huge peak in Columbus, OH most likely people cooped up from covid wanted to finally get out and buy a house, or sellers finally feeling comfortable to have people tour their home and put their house on the market. 2022 Fall is when Akron, OH really saw a spike in new construction home sales. Then there is a huge dip in 2023 for Akron, OH I feel like this is because of interest rates being so high. Over all, when looking to buy a new construction house I feel that the graphs I created can help people know what cities are good to look at new homes in. Also, when house shopping if you want to live in a newer development/houses these graphs are great for narrowing in on cities that had new development. Buying a newly built home can be hard to find and that is why I created these graphs so people can have a bit easier time pinpointing locations with homes they want. If you want to buy a new construction house the magical month of April is the ideal time due to motivated sellers from being cooped up all winter, and the great weather. 
